Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty
four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People
Search
[                    ] ×
Submit
For a full list of topics: A-Z Index
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
Section Navigation Interim Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations

  • Interim Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations
  • FAQ on Infection Control

Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

 1. CDC
 2. Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
 3. Healthcare Professionals
 4. Infection Control

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • LinkedIn
  • Email
  • Syndicate

Interim Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations for Patients with
Confirmed Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or Persons Under Investigation
for COVID-19 in Healthcare Settings

 
Related Pages

Updated February 21, 2020

chat icon

Frequently Asked Questions: Healthcare Infection Prevention and Control

Background

Infection control procedures including administrative rules and engineering
controls, environmental hygiene, correct work practices, and appropriate use of
personal protective equipment (PPE) are all necessary to prevent infections
from spreading during healthcare delivery. Prompt detection and effective
triage and isolation of potentially infectious patients are essential to
prevent unnecessary exposures among patients, healthcare personnel, and
visitors at the facility. All healthcare facilities must ensure that their
personnel are correctly trained and capable of implementing infection control
procedures; individual healthcare personnel should ensure they understand and
can adhere to infection control requirements.

This guidance is based on the currently limited information available about
coronavirus disease 2019 related to disease severity, transmission efficiency,
and shedding duration. This cautious approach will be refined and updated as
more information becomes available and as response needs change in the United
States. This guidance is applicable to all U.S. healthcare settings. This
guidance is not intended for non-healthcare settings (e.g., schools) OR to
persons outside of healthcare settings. For recommendations regarding clinical
management, air or ground medical transport, or laboratory settings, refer to
the main CDC COVID-19 website.

Definition of Healthcare Personnel (HCP) – For the purposes of this guidance,
HCP refers to all persons, paid and unpaid, working in healthcare settings
engaged in patient care activities, including: patient assessment for triage,
entering examination rooms or patient rooms to provide care or clean and
disinfect the environment, obtaining clinical specimens, handling soiled
medical supplies or equipment, and coming in contact with potentially
contaminated environmental surfaces.

Recommendations

1. Minimize Chance for Exposures

Ensure facility policies and practices are in place to minimize exposures to
respiratory pathogens including SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19.
Measures should be implemented before patient arrival, upon arrival, and
throughout the duration of the affected patient’s presence in the healthcare
setting.

  • Before Arrival
      □ When scheduling appointments, instruct patients and persons who
        accompany them to call ahead or inform HCP upon arrival if they have
        symptoms of any respiratory infection (e.g., cough, runny nose, fever1)
        and to take appropriate preventive actions (e.g., wear a facemask upon
        entry to contain cough, follow triage procedures).
      □ If a patient is arriving via transport by emergency medical services
        (EMS), the driver should contact the receiving emergency department
        (ED) or healthcare facility and follow previously agreed upon local or
        regional transport protocols. This will allow the healthcare facility
        to prepare for receipt of the patient.
  • Upon Arrival and During the Visit
      □ Take steps to ensure all persons with symptoms of suspected COVID-19 or
        other respiratory infection (e.g., fever, cough) adhere to respiratory
        hygiene and cough etiquette, hand hygiene, and triage procedures
        throughout the duration of the visit. Consider posting visual alerts
        (e.g., signs, posters) at the entrance and in strategic places (e.g.,
        waiting areas, elevators, cafeterias) to provide patients and HCP with
        instructions (in appropriate languages) about hand hygiene, respiratory
        hygiene, and cough etiquette. Instructions should include how to use
        facemasks (See definition of facemask in Appendix) or tissues to cover
        nose and mouth when coughing or sneezing, to dispose of tissues and
        contaminated items in waste receptacles, and how and when to perform
        hand hygiene.
      □ Ensure that patients with symptoms of suspected COVID-19 or other
        respiratory infection (e.g., fever, cough) are not allowed to wait
        among other patients seeking care.  Identify a separate,
        well-ventilated space that allows waiting patients to be separated by 6
        or more feet, with easy access to respiratory hygiene supplies. In some
        settings, medically-stable patients might opt to wait in a personal
        vehicle or outside the healthcare facility where they can be contacted
        by mobile phone when it is their turn to be evaluated.
      □ Ensure rapid triage and isolation of patients with symptoms of
        suspected COVID-19 or other respiratory infection (e.g., fever, cough):
          ☆ Identify patients at risk for having COVID-19 infection before or
            immediately upon arrival to the healthcare facility.
              ○ Implement triage procedures to detect persons under
                investigation (PUI) for COVID-19  during or before patient
                triage or registration (e.g., at the time of patient check-in)
                and ensure that all patients are asked about the presence of
                symptoms of a respiratory infection and history of travel to
                areas experiencing transmission of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that
                causes COVID-19,  or contact with possible COVID-19 patients.
          ☆ Implement respiratory hygiene and cough etiquette (i.e., placing a
            facemask over the patient’s nose and mouth if that has not already
            been done) and isolate the PUI for COVID-19 in an Airborne
            Infection Isolation Room (AIIR), if available. See recommendations
            for “Patient Placement” below. Additional guidance for evaluating
            patients in U.S. for COVID-19 infection can be found on the CDC
            COVID-19 website.
          ☆ Inform infection prevention and control services, local and state
            public health authorities, and other healthcare facility staff as
            appropriate about the presence of a person under investigation for
            COVID-19.
      □ Provide supplies for respiratory hygiene and cough etiquette, including
        60%-95% alcohol-based hand sanitizer (ABHS), tissues, no touch
        receptacles for disposal, and facemasks at healthcare facility
        entrances, waiting rooms, patient check-ins, etc.

2. Adherence to Standard, Contact, and Airborne Precautions, Including the Use
of Eye Protection

Standard Precautions assume that every person is potentially infected or
colonized with a pathogen that could be transmitted in the healthcare setting.
Elements of Standard Precautions that apply to patients with respiratory
infections, including those caused by COVID-19, are summarized below. Attention
should be paid to training on correct use, proper donning (putting on) and
doffing (taking off), and disposal of any PPE. This document does not emphasize
all aspects of Standard Precautions (e.g., injection safety) that are required
for all patient care; the full description is provided in the Guideline for
Isolation Precautions: Preventing Transmission of Infectious Agents in
Healthcare Settings. All HCP (see section 3 for measures for non-HCP visitors)
who enter the room of a patient with known or suspected COVID-19 (i.e., PUI)
should adhere to Standard, Contact, and Airborne Precautions, including the
following:

  • Patient Placement
      □ Place a patient with known or suspected COVID-19 (i.e., PUI) in an AIIR
        that has been constructed and maintained in accordance with current
        guidelines.
          ☆ AIIRs are single patient rooms at negative pressure relative to the
            surrounding areas, and with a minimum of 6 air changes per hour (12
            air changes per hour are recommended for new construction or
            renovation). Air from these rooms should be exhausted directly to
            the outside or be filtered through a high-efficiency particulate
            air (HEPA) filter before recirculation. Room doors should be kept
            closed except when entering or leaving the room, and entry and exit
            should be minimized. Facilities should monitor and document the
            proper negative-pressure function of these rooms.
          ☆ If an AIIR is not available, patients who require hospitalization
            should be transferred as soon as is feasible to a facility where an
            AIIR is available. If the patient does not require hospitalization
            they can be discharged to home (in consultation with state or local
            public health authorities) if deemed medically and socially
            appropriate. Pending transfer or discharge, place a facemask on the
            patient and isolate him/her in an examination room with the door
            closed. Ideally, the patient should not be placed in any room where
            room exhaust is recirculated within the building without HEPA
            filtration.
      □ Once in an AIIR, the patient’s facemask may be removed. Limit transport
        and movement of the patient outside of the AIIR to medically-essential
        purposes. When not in an AIIR (e.g., during transport or if an AIIR is
        not available), patients should wear a facemask to contain secretions.
      □ Personnel entering the room should use PPE, including respiratory
        protection, as described below.
      □ Only essential personnel should enter the room. Implement staffing
        policies to minimize the number of HCP who enter the room.
          ☆ Facilities should consider caring for these patients with dedicated
            HCP to minimize risk of transmission and exposure to other patients
            and other HCP.
      □ Facilities should keep a log of all persons who care for or enter the
        rooms or care area of these patients.
      □ Use dedicated or disposable noncritical patient-care equipment (e.g.,
        blood pressure cuffs). If equipment will be used for more than one
        patient, clean and disinfect such equipment before use on another
        patient according to manufacturer’s instructions.
      □ HCP entering the room soon after a patient vacates the room should use
        respiratory protection. (See personal protective equipment section
        below) Standard practice for pathogens spread by the airborne route
        (e.g., measles, tuberculosis) is to restrict unprotected individuals,
        including HCP, from entering a vacated room until sufficient time has
        elapsed for enough air changes to remove potentially infectious
        particles (more information on clearance rates under differing
        ventilation conditions is available). We do not yet know how long
        COVID-19 remains infectious in the air. In the interim, it is
        reasonable to apply a similar time period before entering the room
        without respiratory protection as used for pathogens spread by the
        airborne route (e.g., measles, tuberculosis). In addition, the room
        should undergo appropriate cleaning and surface disinfection before it
        is returned to routine use.
  • Hand Hygiene
      □ HCP should perform hand hygiene using ABHS before and after all patient
        contact, contact with potentially infectious material, and before
        putting on and upon removal of PPE, including gloves. Hand hygiene in
        healthcare settings also can be performed by washing with soap and
        water for at least 20 seconds. If hands are visibly soiled, use soap
        and water before returning to ABHS.
      □ Healthcare facilities should ensure that hand hygiene supplies are
        readily available in every care location.
  • Personal Protective Equipment
    Employers should select appropriate PPE and provide it to HCP in accordance
    with OSHA’s PPE standards (29 CFR 1910 Subpart I)external icon. HCP must
    receive training on and demonstrate an understanding of when to use PPE;
    what PPE is necessary; how to properly don, use, and doffpdf icon PPE in a
    manner to prevent self-contamination; how to properly dispose of or
    disinfect and maintain PPE; and the limitations of PPE. Any reusable PPE
    must be properly cleaned, decontaminated, and maintained after and between
    uses. Facilities should have policies and procedures describing a
    recommended sequence for safely donning and doffing PPE:
      □ Gloves
          ☆ Perform hand hygiene, then put on clean, non-sterile gloves upon
            entry into the patient room or care area. Change gloves if they
            become torn or heavily contaminated.
          ☆ Remove and discard gloves when leaving the patient room or care
            area, and immediately perform hand hygiene.
      □ Gowns
          ☆ Put on a clean isolation gown upon entry into the patient room or
            area. Change the gown if it becomes soiled. Remove and discard the
            gown in a dedicated container for waste or linen before leaving the
            patient room or care area. Disposable gowns should be discarded
            after use. Cloth gowns should be laundered after each use.
      □ Respiratory Protection
          ☆ Use respiratory protection (i.e., a respirator) that is at least as
            protective as a fit-tested NIOSH-certified disposable N95 filtering
            facepiece respirator before entry into the patient room or care
            area. See appendix for respirator definition.
          ☆ Disposable respirators should be removed and discarded after
            exiting the patient’s room or care area and closing the door.
            Perform hand hygiene after discarding the respirator.
          ☆ If reusable respirators (e.g., powered air purifying respirator/
            PAPR) are used, they must be cleaned and disinfected according to
            manufacturer’s reprocessing instructions prior to re-use.
          ☆ Respirator use must be in the context of a complete respiratory
            protection program in accordance with Occupational Safety and
            Health Administration (OSHA) Respiratory Protection standard (29
            CFR 1910.134external icon). Staff should be medically cleared and
            fit-tested if using respirators with tight-fitting facepieces
            (e.g., a NIOSH-certified disposable N95) and trained in the proper
            use of respirators, safe removal and disposal, and medical
            contraindications to respirator use.
      □ Eye Protection
          ☆ Put on eye protection (e.g., goggles, a disposable face shield that
            covers the front and sides of the face) upon entry to the patient
            room or care area. Remove eye protection before leaving the patient
            room or care area. Reusable eye protection (e.g., goggles) must be
            cleaned and disinfected according to manufacturer’s reprocessing
            instructions prior to re-use.  Disposable eye protection should be
            discarded after use.
  • Use Caution When Performing Aerosol-Generating Procedures
      □ Some procedures performed on COVID-19 patients could generate
        infectious aerosols. In particular, procedures that are likely to
        induce coughing (e.g., sputum induction, open suctioning of airways)
        should be performed cautiously and avoided if possible.
      □ If performed, these procedures should take place in an AIIR and
        personnel should use respiratory protection as described above. In
        addition:
          ☆ Limit the number of HCP present during the procedure to only those
            essential for patient care and procedural support.
          ☆ Clean and disinfect procedure room surfaces promptly as described
            in the section on environmental infection control below.
  • Diagnostic Respiratory Specimen Collection
      □ Collecting diagnostic respiratory specimens (e.g., nasopharyngeal swab)
        are likely to induce coughing or sneezing. Individuals in the room
        during the procedure should, ideally, be limited to the patient and the
        healthcare provider obtaining the specimen.
      □ HCP collecting specimens for testing for SARS-CoV-2, the virus that
        causes COVID-19, from patients with known or suspected COVID-19 (i.e.,
        PUI) should adhere to Standard, Contact, and Airborne Precautions,
        including the use of eye protection.
      □ These procedures should take place in an AIIR or in an examination room
        with the door closed.  Ideally, the patient should not be placed in any
        room where room exhaust is recirculated within the building without
        HEPA filtration.
  • Duration of Isolation Precautions for PUIs and confirmed COVID-19 patients
      □ Until information is available regarding viral shedding after clinical
        improvement, discontinuation of isolation precautions should be
        determined on a case-by-case basis, in conjunction with local, state,
        and federal health authorities.
      □ Factors that should be considered include: presence of symptoms related
        to COVID-19 infection, date symptoms resolved, other conditions that
        would require specific precautions (e.g., tuberculosis, Clostridioides
        difficile), other laboratory information reflecting clinical status,
        alternatives to inpatient isolation, such as the possibility of safe
        recovery at home.
      □ For additional information refer to the Interim Considerations for
        Disposition of Hospitalized Patients with COVID-19.

3. Manage Visitor Access and Movement Within the Facility

  • Establish procedures for monitoring, managing and training visitors.
  • Restrict visitors from entering the room of known or suspected COVID-19
    patients (i.e., PUI). Alternative mechanisms for patient and visitor
    interactions, such as video-call applications on cell phones or tablets
    should be explored. Facilities can consider exceptions based on end-of-life
    situations or when a visitor is essential for the patient’s emotional
    well-being and care.
  • Visitors to patients with known or suspected COVID-19 (i.e., PUI) should be
    scheduled and controlled to allow for:
      □ Screening visitors for symptoms of acute respiratory illness before
        entering the healthcare facility.
      □ Facilities should evaluate risk to the health of the visitor (e.g.,
        visitor might have underlying illness putting them at higher risk for
        COVID-19) and ability to comply with precautions.
      □ Facilities should provide instruction, before visitors enter patients’
        rooms, on hand hygiene, limiting surfaces touched, and use of PPE
        according to current facility policy while in the patient’s room.
      □ Facilities should maintain a record (e.g., log book) of all visitors
        who enter patient rooms.
      □ Visitors should not be present during aerosol-generating procedures.
      □ Visitors should be instructed to limit their movement within the
        facility.
      □ Exposed visitors (e.g., contact with COVID-19 patient prior to
        admission) should be advised to report any signs and symptoms of acute
        illness to their health care provider for a period of at least 14 days
        after the last known exposure to the sick patient.
  • All visitors should follow respiratory hygiene and cough etiquette
    precautions while in the common areas of the facility.

4. Implement Engineering Controls

  • Consider designing and installing engineering controls to reduce or
    eliminate exposures by shielding HCP and other patients from infected
    individuals. Examples of engineering controls include physical barriers or
    partitions to guide patients through triage areas, curtains between
    patients in shared areas, closed suctioning systems for airway suctioning
    for intubated patients, as well as appropriate air-handling systems (with
    appropriate directionality, filtration, exchange rate, etc.) that are
    installed and properly maintained.

5. Monitor and Manage Ill and Exposed Healthcare Personnel

  • Movement and monitoring decisions for HCP with exposure to COVID-19 should
    be made in consultation with public health authorities. Refer to the
    Interim U.S. Guidance for Risk Assessment and Public Health Management of
    Healthcare Personnel with Potential Exposure in a Healthcare Setting to
    Patients with Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) for additional
    information.
  • Facilities and organizations providing healthcare should implement sick
    leave policies for HCP that are non-punitive, flexible, and consistent with
    public health guidance.

 6. Train and Educate Healthcare Personnel

  • Provide HCP with job- or task-specific education and training on preventing
    transmission of infectious agents, including refresher training.
  • HCP must be medically cleared, trained, and fit tested for respiratory
    protection device use (e.g., N95 filtering facepiece respirators), or
    medically cleared and trained in the use of an alternative respiratory
    protection device (e.g., Powered Air-Purifying Respirator, PAPR) whenever
    respirators are required. OSHA has a number of respiratory training videos
    external icon.
  • Ensure that HCP are educated, trained, and have practiced the appropriate
    use of PPE prior to caring for a patient, including attention to correct
    use of PPE and prevention of contamination of clothing, skin, and
    environment during the process of removing such equipment.

7. Implement Environmental Infection Control

  • Dedicated medical equipment should be used for patient care.
  • All non-dedicated, non-disposable medical equipment used for patient care
    should be cleaned and disinfected according to manufacturer’s instructions
    and facility policies.
  • Ensure that environmental cleaning and disinfection procedures are followed
    consistently and correctly.
  • Routine cleaning and disinfection procedures (e.g., using cleaners and
    water to pre-clean surfaces prior to applying an EPA-registered,
    hospital-grade disinfectant to frequently touched surfaces or objects for
    appropriate contact times as indicated on the product’s label) are
    appropriate for COVID-19 in healthcare settings, including those
    patient-care areas in which aerosol-generating procedures are performed.
    Products with EPA-approved emerging viral pathogens claims are recommended
    for use against COVID-19. These products can be identified by the following
    claim:
      □ “[Product name] has demonstrated effectiveness against viruses similar
        to COVID-19 on hard non-porous surfaces. Therefore, this product can be
        used against COVID-19 when used in accordance with the directions for
        use against [name of supporting virus] on hard, non-porous surfaces.”
      □ This claim or a similar claim, will be made only through the following
        communications outlets: technical literature distributed exclusively to
        health care facilities, physicians, nurses and public health officials,
        “1-800” consumer information services, social media sites and company
        websites (non-label related). Specific claims for “COVID-19” will not
        appear on the product or master label.
      □ See additional information about EPA-approved emerging viral pathogens
        claimsexternal icon.
      □ If there are no available EPA-registered products that have an approved
        emerging viral pathogen claim for COVID-19, products with label claims
        against human coronaviruses should be used according to label
        instructions.
  • Management of laundry, food service utensils, and medical waste should also
    be performed in accordance with routine procedures.
  • Detailed information on environmental infection control in healthcare
    settings can be found in CDC’s Guidelines for Environmental Infection
    Control in Health-Care Facilities and Guideline for Isolation Precautions:
    Preventing Transmission of Infectious Agents in Healthcare Settings
    [section IV.F. Care of the environment].

8. Establish Reporting within Healthcare Facilities and to Public Health
Authorities

  • Implement mechanisms and policies that promptly alert key facility staff
    including infection control, healthcare epidemiology, facility leadership,
    occupational health, clinical laboratory, and frontline staff about known
    or suspected COVID-19 patients (i.e., PUI).
  • Communicate and collaborate with public health authorities.
      □ Promptly notify state or local public health authorities of patients
        with known or suspected COVID-19 (i.e., PUI). Facilities should
        designate specific persons within the healthcare facility who are
        responsible for communication with public health officials and
        dissemination of information to HCP.

Appendix: Additional Information about Respirators and Facemasks:

Information about Respirators:

  • A respirator is a personal protective device that is worn on the face,
    covers at least the nose and mouth, and is used to reduce the wearer’s risk
    of inhaling hazardous airborne particles (including dust particles and
    infectious agents), gases, or vapors. Respirators are certified by the CDC/
    NIOSH, including those intended for use in healthcare.
  • Respirator use must be in the context of a complete respiratory protection
    program in accordance with OSHA Respiratory Protection standard (29 CFR
    1910.134external icon). HCP should be medically cleared and fit-tested if
    using respirators with tight-fitting facepieces (e.g., a NIOSH-approved N95
    respirator) and trained in the proper use of respirators, safe removal and
    disposal, and medical contraindications to respirator use.
  • NIOSH information about respirators
  • OSHA Respiratory Protection eToolexternal icon

Filtering Facepiece Respirators (FFR) including N95 Respirators

  • A commonly used respirator is a filtering facepiece respirator (commonly
    referred to as an N95). Filtering facepiece respirators are disposable half
    facepiece respirators that filter out particles.
  • To work properly, FFRs must be worn throughout the period of exposure and
    be specially fitted for each person who wears one (this is called
    “fit-testing” and is usually done in a workplace where respirators are
    used).
  • Three key factors for an N95 respirator to be effectivepdf icon
  • FFR users should also perform a user seal check to ensure proper fit each
    time an FFR is used.
  • More information on how to perform a user seal checkpdf icon

See a list of NIOSH-approved N95 respirators

Powered Air-Purifying Respirators (PAPRs)

  • Powered air-purifying respirators (PAPRs) have a battery-powered blower
    that pulls air through attached filters, canisters, or cartridges. They
    provide protection against gases, vapors, or particles, when equipped with
    the appropriate cartridge, canister, or filter.
  • Loose-fitting PAPRs do not require fit testing and can be used with facial
    hair.
  • A list of NIOSH-approved PAPRs is located on the NIOSH Certified Equipment
    List

Information about Facemasks:

  • If worn properly, a facemask helps block respiratory secretions produced by
    the wearer from contaminating other persons and surfaces (often called
    source control).
  • Facemasks are cleared by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for
    use as medical devices. Facemasks should be used once and then thrown away
    in the trash.

Interim Guidance for Implementing Home Care of People Not Requiring
Hospitalization for Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

CDC has developed interim guidance for staff at local and state health
departments, infection prevention and control professionals, healthcare
providers, and healthcare workers who are coordinating the home care and
isolation of people who are confirmed to have, or being evaluated for
coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) (see Criteria to Guide Evaluation of
Persons Under Investigation (PUI) for COVID-19).

Interim Guidance for Implementing Home Care of People Not Requiring
Hospitalization for Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

Important Links and Additional Infection Control Resources

  • World Health Organization (WHO) Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
    technical guidanceexternal icon
  • Respirator Trusted-Source Information
  • Respirator Fact Sheet

Footnote

 1. Fever may not be present in some patients, such as those who are very
    young, elderly, immunosuppressed, or taking certain medications. Clinical
    judgement should be used to guide testing of patients in such situations.

Top of Page
Page last reviewed: February 21, 2020
Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

  • COVID-19 Situation Summaryplus icon
      □ Cases in the U.S.
      □ Global Map
      □ CDC in Action
  • What You Should Knowplus icon
      □ How it Spreads
      □ Symptoms
      □ Prevention & Treatment
      □ What to Do if You are Sick
      □ Stigma and COVID-19plus icon
          ☆ Share Facts
      □ COVID-19 FAQs
  • Travel Informationplus icon
      □ Traveling from China
      □ Communication Resources
      □ FAQ for Travelers
  • Preventing COVID-19 Spread in Communitiesplus icon
      □ At Home
      □ At School
      □ At Work
      □ In Healthcare Settings
  • Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
      □ Pregnant Women and Childrenplus icon
          ☆ Pregnant Women
          ☆ Breastfeeding
          ☆ Children
      □ Businesses
      □ Schools
  • Healthcare Professionalsplus icon
      □ Evaluating and Reporting PUIplus icon
          ☆ Postmortem Guidance
      □ Interim Guidance for EMS
      □ Infection Controlplus icon
          ☆ Interim Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations
          ☆ FAQ on Infection Control
      □ Clinical Careplus icon
          ☆ Disposition of Hospitalized Patients with COVID-19
          ☆ Inpatient Obstetric Healthcare Guidance
      □ What Healthcare Personnel Should Know
      □ Strategies for Optimizing the Supply of N95 Respiratorsplus icon
          ☆ Conventional Capacity Strategies
          ☆ Contingency Capacity Strategies
          ☆ Crisis Alternate Strategies
      □ Healthcare Personnel with Potential Exposure to COVID-19
      □ Preparedness Resourcesplus icon
          ☆ Healthcare Providers Preparedness Checklist
          ☆ Hospital Preparedness Tool
      □ Implementing Home Careplus icon
          ☆ Preventing COVID-19 from spreading
          ☆ Disposition of Non-Hospitalized Patients with COVID-19
      □ Healthcare Supply of Personal Protective Equipmentplus icon
          ☆ FAQ About Personal Protective Equipment
      □ FAQ for Healthcare Professionals
  • Resources for Healthcare Facilities (LTCF)plus icon
      □ Steps Healthcare Facilities Can Take
      □ Interim Guidance for Healthcare Facilities
      □ Strategies to Prevent Spread in LTCF
  • Resources for Health Departmentsplus icon
      □ Evaluating PUIs Residential
      □ Reporting a PUI or Confirmed Case
      □ Risk Assessment and Management
      □ Pandemic Preparedness Resources
      □ COVID-19 Publications
  • Laboratoriesplus icon
      □ CDC Lab Workplus icon
          ☆ Testing
      □ Guidelines for Clinical Specimens
      □ Lab Biosafety Guidelines
      □ Requests for Diagnostic Tools and Virus
      □ Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Identification Protocol
      □ Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Primer and Probe Information
  • Communication Resourcesplus icon
      □ Buttons and Badges
      □ Print Resources
      □ Videos
      □ What’s New

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about COVID-19, enter your email address:

Email Address [                    ]
What's this?
Submit

HAVE QUESTIONS?
Visit CDC-INFO
Call 800-232-4636
Email CDC-INFO

CDC INFORMATION

  • About CDC
  • Jobs
  • Funding
  • Policies
  • File Viewers & Players

  • Privacy
  • FOIA
  • No Fear Act
  • OIG
  • Nondiscrimination
  • Accessibility

CONNECT WITH CDC

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Youtube
  • Instagram


  • Syndicate
  • CDC TV
  • RSS
  • Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
USA.gov
CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • LinkedIn
  • Email

Web Analytics

Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close
Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.

  • The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the
    accuracy of a non-federal website.
  • Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC
    or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products
    presented on the website.
  • You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you
    follow the link.
  • CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other
    federal or private website.

For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.
Cancel Continue
