Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty
four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People
Search
[                    ] ×
Submit
For a full list of topics: A-Z Index
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
Section Navigation Preventing COVID-19 from spreading

  • Preventing COVID-19 from spreading
  • Disposition of Non-Hospitalized Patients with COVID-19

Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

 1. CDC
 2. Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
 3. Healthcare Professionals
 4. Implementing Home Care

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • LinkedIn
  • Email
  • Syndicate

Interim Guidance for Preventing the Spread of Coronavirus Disease 2019
(COVID-19) in Homes and Residential Communities

Other Languages
Español中文
Español | 中文
 
Related Pages

Update: February 14, 2020

(This guidance provides clarification regarding evaluation for home isolation
and a new section with information regarding preventative steps for household
members, intimate partners, and caregivers in a nonhealthcare setting of a
person with symptomatic, laboratory-confirmed COVID-19.)

This interim guidance is based on what is currently known about the
epidemiology of COVID-19 and the transmission of other viral respiratory
diseases. CDC will update this interim guidance as needed and as additional
information becomes available.

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses, some causing illness in people and
others that circulate among animals, including camels, cats, and bats. Rarely,
animal coronaviruses can infect people exposed to infected animals, and then
spread among people, as has been seen with MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV, and likely
now with SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19. This interim guidance may
help prevent this virus from spreading among people in their homes and in other
residential communities.

This interim guidance is intended for:

  • People with confirmed or suspected COVID-19, including persons under
    investigation, who do not need to be hospitalized and who can receive care
    at home (see Interim Guidance for Implementing Home Care of People Not
    Requiring Hospitalization for Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19));
  • People with confirmed COVID-19, who were hospitalized and then determined
    to be medically stable to go home (see Interim Guidance for Implementing
    Home Care of People Not Requiring Hospitalization for Coronavirus Disease
    2019 (COVID-19));
  • Household members, intimate partners, and caregivers in a nonhealthcare
    setting of a person with symptomatic, laboratory-confirmed COVID-19.

Top of Page

Prevention steps for

People with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 (including persons under
investigation) who do not need to be hospitalized

and

People with confirmed COVID-19 who were hospitalized and determined to be
medically stable to go home

Your healthcare provider and public health staff will evaluate whether you can
be cared for at home. If it is determined that you do not need to be
hospitalized and can be isolated at home, you will be monitored by staff from
your local or state health department. You should follow the prevention steps
below until a healthcare provider or local or state health department says you
can return to your normal activities.

Stay home except to get medical care

You should restrict activities outside your home, except for getting medical
care. Do not go to work, school, or public areas. Avoid using public
transportation, ride-sharing, or taxis.

Separate yourself from other people and animals in your home

People: As much as possible, you should stay in a specific room and away from
other people in your home. Also, you should use a separate bathroom, if
available.

Animals: You should restrict contact with pets and other animals while you are
sick with COVID-19, just like you would around other people. Although there
have not been reports of pets or other animals becoming sick with COVID-19, it
is still recommended that people sick with COVID-19 limit contact with animals
until more information is known about the virus. When possible, have another
member of your household care for your animals while you are sick. If you are
sick with COVID-19, avoid contact with your pet, including petting, snuggling,
being kissed or licked, and sharing food. If you must care for your pet or be
around animals while you are sick, wash your hands before and after you
interact with pets and wear a facemask. See COVID-19 and Animals for more
information.

Call ahead before visiting your doctor

If you have a medical appointment, call the healthcare provider and tell them
that you have or may have COVID-19. This will help the healthcare provider’s
office take steps to keep other people from getting infected or exposed.

Wear a facemask

You should wear a facemask when you are around other people (e.g., sharing a
room or vehicle) or pets and before you enter a healthcare provider’s office.
If you are not able to wear a facemask (for example, because it causes trouble
breathing), then people who live with you should not stay in the same room with
you, or they should wear a facemask if they enter your room.

Cover your coughs and sneezes

Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze. Throw used
tissues in a lined trash can; immediately wash your hands with soap and water
for at least 20 seconds or clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand
sanitizer that contains 60 to 95% alcohol, covering all surfaces of your hands
and rubbing them together until they feel dry. Soap and water should be used
preferentially if hands are visibly dirty.

Clean your hands often

Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or clean your
hands with an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains 60 to 95% alcohol,
covering all surfaces of your hands and rubbing them together until they feel
dry. Soap and water should be used preferentially if hands are visibly dirty.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.

Avoid sharing personal household items

You should not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups, eating utensils, towels,
or bedding with other people or pets in your home. After using these items,
they should be washed thoroughly with soap and water.

Clean all “high-touch” surfaces everyday

High touch surfaces include counters, tabletops, doorknobs, bathroom fixtures,
toilets, phones, keyboards, tablets, and bedside tables. Also, clean any
surfaces that may have blood, stool, or body fluids on them. Use a household
cleaning spray or wipe, according to the label instructions. Labels contain
instructions for safe and effective use of the cleaning product including
precautions you should take when applying the product, such as wearing gloves
and making sure you have good ventilation during use of the product.

Monitor your symptoms

Seek prompt medical attention if your illness is worsening (e.g., difficulty
breathing). Before seeking care, call your healthcare provider and tell them
that you have, or are being evaluated for, COVID-19. Put on a facemask before
you enter the facility. These steps will help the healthcare provider’s office
to keep other people in the office or waiting room from getting infected or
exposed. Ask your healthcare provider to call the local or state health
department. Persons who are placed under active monitoring or facilitated
self-monitoring should follow instructions provided by their local health
department or occupational health professionals, as appropriate.

If you have a medical emergency and need to call 911, notify the dispatch
personnel that you have, or are being evaluated for COVID-19. If possible, put
on a facemask before emergency medical services arrive.

Discontinuing home isolation

Patients with confirmed COVID-19 should remain under home isolation precautions
until the risk of secondary transmission to others is thought to be low. The
decision to discontinue home isolation precautions should be made on a
case-by-case basis, in consultation with healthcare providers and state and
local health departments.

Recommended precautions for household members, intimate partners, and
caregivers in a nonhealthcare setting^1 of

A patient with symptomatic laboratory-confirmed COVID-19

or

A patient under investigation

Household members, intimate partners, and caregivers in a nonhealthcare setting
may have close contact^2 with a person with symptomatic, laboratory-confirmed
COVID-19 or a person under investigation. Close contacts should monitor their
health; they should call their healthcare provider right away if they develop
symptoms suggestive of COVID-19 (e.g., fever, cough, shortness of breath) (see
Interim US Guidance for Risk Assessment and Public Health Management of Persons
with Potential Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Exposure in
Travel-associated or Community Settings.)

Close contacts should also follow these recommendations:

  • Make sure that you understand and can help the patient follow their
    healthcare provider’s instructions for medication(s) and care. You should
    help the patient with basic needs in the home and provide support for
    getting groceries, prescriptions, and other personal needs.
  • Monitor the patient’s symptoms. If the patient is getting sicker, call his
    or her healthcare provider and tell them that the patient has
    laboratory-confirmed COVID-19. This will help the healthcare provider’s
    office take steps to keep other people in the office or waiting room from
    getting infected. Ask the healthcare provider to call the local or state
    health department for additional guidance. If the patient has a medical
    emergency and you need to call 911, notify the dispatch personnel that the
    patient has, or is being evaluated for COVID-19.
  • Household members should stay in another room or be separated from the
    patient as much as possible. Household members should use a separate
    bedroom and bathroom, if available.
  • Prohibit visitors who do not have an essential need to be in the home.
  • Household members should care for any pets in the home. Do not handle pets
    or other animals while sick.  For more information, see COVID-19 and
    Animals.
  • Make sure that shared spaces in the home have good air flow, such as by an
    air conditioner or an opened window, weather permitting.
  • Perform hand hygiene frequently. Wash your hands often with soap and water
    for at least 20 seconds or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that
    contains 60 to 95% alcohol, covering all surfaces of your hands and rubbing
    them together until they feel dry. Soap and water should be used
    preferentially if hands are visibly dirty.
  • Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.
  • You and the patient should wear a facemask if you are in the same room.
  • Wear a disposable facemask and gloves when you touch or have contact with
    the patient’s blood, stool, or body fluids, such as saliva, sputum, nasal
    mucus, vomit, urine.
      □ Throw out disposable facemasks and gloves after using them. Do not
        reuse.
      □ When removing personal protective equipment, first remove and dispose
        of gloves. Then, immediately clean your hands with soap and water or
        alcohol-based hand sanitizer. Next, remove and dispose of facemask, and
        immediately clean your hands again with soap and water or alcohol-based
        hand sanitizer.
  • Avoid sharing household items with the patient. You should not share
    dishes, drinking glasses, cups, eating utensils, towels, bedding, or other
    items. After the patient uses these items, you should wash them thoroughly
    (see below “Wash laundry thoroughly”).
  • Clean all “high-touch” surfaces, such as counters, tabletops, doorknobs,
    bathroom fixtures, toilets, phones, keyboards, tablets, and bedside tables,
    every day. Also, clean any surfaces that may have blood, stool, or body
    fluids on them.
      □ Use a household cleaning spray or wipe, according to the label
        instructions. Labels contain instructions for safe and effective use of
        the cleaning product including precautions you should take when
        applying the product, such as wearing gloves and making sure you have
        good ventilation during use of the product.
  • Wash laundry thoroughly.
      □ Immediately remove and wash clothes or bedding that have blood, stool,
        or body fluids on them.
      □ Wear disposable gloves while handling soiled items and keep soiled
        items away from your body. Clean your hands (with soap and water or an
        alcohol-based hand sanitizer) immediately after removing your gloves.
      □ Read and follow directions on labels of laundry or clothing items and
        detergent. In general, using a normal laundry detergent according to
        washing machine instructions and dry thoroughly using the warmest
        temperatures recommended on the clothing label.
  • Place all used disposable gloves, facemasks, and other contaminated items
    in a lined container before disposing of them with other household waste.
    Clean your hands (with soap and water or an alcohol-based hand sanitizer)
    immediately after handling these items. Soap and water should be used
    preferentially if hands are visibly dirty.
  • Discuss any additional questions with your state or local health department
    or healthcare provider.

Footnotes

^1Home healthcare personnel should refer to Interim Infection Prevention and
Control Recommendations for Patients with Known or Patients Under Investigation
for Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) in a Healthcare Setting.

^2Close contact is defined as—

a) being within approximately 6 feet (2 meters) of a COVID-19 case for a
prolonged period of time; close contact can occur while caring for, living
with, visiting, or sharing a health care waiting area or room with a COVID-19
case

– or –

b) having direct contact with infectious secretions of a COVID-19 case (e.g.,
being coughed on).

Page last reviewed: February 18, 2020
Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

  • COVID-19 Situation Summaryplus icon
      □ Cases in the U.S.
      □ Global Map
      □ CDC in Action
  • What You Should Knowplus icon
      □ How it Spreads
      □ Symptoms
      □ Prevention & Treatment
      □ What to Do if You are Sick
      □ Stigma and COVID-19plus icon
          ☆ Share Facts
      □ COVID-19 FAQs
  • Travel Informationplus icon
      □ Traveling from China
      □ Communication Resources
      □ FAQ for Travelers
  • Preventing COVID-19 Spread in Communitiesplus icon
      □ At Home
      □ At School
      □ At Work
      □ In Healthcare Settings
  • Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
      □ Pregnant Women and Childrenplus icon
          ☆ Pregnant Women
          ☆ Breastfeeding
          ☆ Children
      □ Businesses
      □ Schools
  • Healthcare Professionalsplus icon
      □ Evaluating and Reporting PUIplus icon
          ☆ Postmortem Guidance
      □ Interim Guidance for EMS
      □ Infection Controlplus icon
          ☆ Interim Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations
          ☆ FAQ on Infection Control
      □ Clinical Careplus icon
          ☆ Disposition of Hospitalized Patients with COVID-19
          ☆ Inpatient Obstetric Healthcare Guidance
      □ What Healthcare Personnel Should Know
      □ Strategies for Optimizing the Supply of N95 Respiratorsplus icon
          ☆ Conventional Capacity Strategies
          ☆ Contingency Capacity Strategies
          ☆ Crisis Alternate Strategies
      □ Healthcare Personnel with Potential Exposure to COVID-19
      □ Preparedness Resourcesplus icon
          ☆ Healthcare Providers Preparedness Checklist
          ☆ Hospital Preparedness Tool
      □ Implementing Home Careplus icon
          ☆ Preventing COVID-19 from spreading
          ☆ Disposition of Non-Hospitalized Patients with COVID-19
      □ Healthcare Supply of Personal Protective Equipmentplus icon
          ☆ FAQ About Personal Protective Equipment
      □ FAQ for Healthcare Professionals
  • Resources for Healthcare Facilities (LTCF)plus icon
      □ Steps Healthcare Facilities Can Take
      □ Interim Guidance for Healthcare Facilities
      □ Strategies to Prevent Spread in LTCF
  • Resources for Health Departmentsplus icon
      □ Evaluating PUIs Residential
      □ Reporting a PUI or Confirmed Case
      □ Risk Assessment and Management
      □ Pandemic Preparedness Resources
      □ COVID-19 Publications
  • Laboratoriesplus icon
      □ CDC Lab Workplus icon
          ☆ Testing
      □ Guidelines for Clinical Specimens
      □ Lab Biosafety Guidelines
      □ Requests for Diagnostic Tools and Virus
      □ Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Identification Protocol
      □ Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Primer and Probe Information
  • Communication Resourcesplus icon
      □ Buttons and Badges
      □ Print Resources
      □ Videos
      □ What’s New

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about COVID-19, enter your email address:

Email Address [                    ]
What's this?
Submit

HAVE QUESTIONS?
Visit CDC-INFO
Call 800-232-4636
Email CDC-INFO

CDC INFORMATION

  • About CDC
  • Jobs
  • Funding
  • Policies
  • File Viewers & Players

  • Privacy
  • FOIA
  • No Fear Act
  • OIG
  • Nondiscrimination
  • Accessibility

CONNECT WITH CDC

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Youtube
  • Instagram


  • Syndicate
  • CDC TV
  • RSS
  • Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
USA.gov
CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • LinkedIn
  • Email

Web Analytics

Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close
Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.

  • The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the
    accuracy of a non-federal website.
  • Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC
    or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products
    presented on the website.
  • You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you
    follow the link.
  • CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other
    federal or private website.

For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.
Cancel Continue
