Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty
four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People
Search
[                    ] ×
Submit
For a full list of topics: A-Z Index
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
Section Navigation What to Do if You are Sick

  • How it Spreads
  • Symptoms
  • Prevention & Treatment
  • What to Do if You are Sick
  • Stigma and COVID-19plus icon
      □ Share Facts
  • COVID-19 FAQs

Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

 1. CDC
 2. Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
 3. What You Should Know

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • LinkedIn
  • Email
  • Syndicate

What to Do If You Are Sick With Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

 
Related Pages

Call ahead to a healthcare professional if you develop a fever^1 and symptoms
of respiratory illness, such as cough or difficulty breathing, after recent
travel from an area with widespread or ongoing community spread or if you have
been in close contact^2 with a person known to have COVID-19. Tell your
healthcare professional about your recent travel or contact. Your healthcare
professional will work with your state’s public health department and CDC to
determine if you need to be tested for COVID-19.

 
travel icon
Information for Travelers from China Arriving in the United States
 
home icon
Information for household members, intimate partners, and caregivers of a
person with COVID-19

Printer friendly versionpdf icon

Steps to help prevent the spread of COVID-19 if you are sick

If you are sick with COVID-19 or suspect you are infected with the virus that
causes COVID-19, follow the steps below to help prevent the disease from
spreading to people in your home and community.

Stay home except to get medical care

People who are mildly ill with COVID-19 are able to isolate at home during
their illness. You should restrict activities outside your home, except for
getting medical care. Do not go to work, school, or public areas. Avoid using
public transportation, ride-sharing, or taxis.

Separate yourself from other people and animals in your home

People: As much as possible, you should stay in a specific room and away from
other people in your home. Also, you should use a separate bathroom, if
available.

Animals: You should restrict contact with pets and other animals while you are
sick with COVID-19, just like you would around other people. Although there
have not been reports of pets or other animals becoming sick with COVID-19, it
is still recommended that people sick with COVID-19 limit contact with animals
until more information is known about the virus. When possible, have another
member of your household care for your animals while you are sick. If you are
sick with COVID-19, avoid contact with your pet, including petting, snuggling,
being kissed or licked, and sharing food. If you must care for your pet or be
around animals while you are sick, wash your hands before and after you
interact with pets and wear a facemask. See COVID-19 and Animals for more
information.

Call ahead before visiting your doctor

If you have a medical appointment, call the healthcare provider and tell them
that you have or may have COVID-19. This will help the healthcare provider’s
office take steps to keep other people from getting infected or exposed.

Wear a facemask

You should wear a facemask when you are around other people (e.g., sharing a
room or vehicle) or pets and before you enter a healthcare provider’s office.
If you are not able to wear a facemask (for example, because it causes trouble
breathing), then people who live with you should not stay in the same room with
you, or they should wear a facemask if they enter your room.

Cover your coughs and sneezes

Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze. Throw used
tissues in a lined trash can. Immediately wash your hands with soap and water
for at least 20 seconds or, if soap and water are not available, clean your
hands with an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.

Clean your hands often

Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially
after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing; going to the bathroom; and
before eating or preparing food. If soap and water are not readily available,
use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol, covering all
surfaces of your hands and rubbing them together until they feel dry.

Soap and water are the best option if hands are visibly dirty. Avoid touching
your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.

Avoid sharing personal household items

You should not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups, eating utensils, towels,
or bedding with other people or pets in your home. After using these items,
they should be washed thoroughly with soap and water.

Clean all “high-touch” surfaces everyday

High touch surfaces include counters, tabletops, doorknobs, bathroom fixtures,
toilets, phones, keyboards, tablets, and bedside tables. Also, clean any
surfaces that may have blood, stool, or body fluids on them. Use a household
cleaning spray or wipe, according to the label instructions. Labels contain
instructions for safe and effective use of the cleaning product including
precautions you should take when applying the product, such as wearing gloves
and making sure you have good ventilation during use of the product.

Monitor your symptoms

Seek prompt medical attention if your illness is worsening (e.g., difficulty
breathing). Before seeking care, call your healthcare provider and tell them
that you have, or are being evaluated for, COVID-19. Put on a facemask before
you enter the facility. These steps will help the healthcare provider’s office
to keep other people in the office or waiting room from getting infected or
exposed. Ask your healthcare provider to call the local or state health
department. Persons who are placed under active monitoring or facilitated
self-monitoring should follow instructions provided by their local health
department or occupational health professionals, as appropriate.

If you have a medical emergency and need to call 911, notify the dispatch
personnel that you have, or are being evaluated for COVID-19. If possible, put
on a facemask before emergency medical services arrive.

Discontinuing home isolation

Patients with confirmed COVID-19 should remain under home isolation precautions
until the risk of secondary transmission to others is thought to be low. The
decision to discontinue home isolation precautions should be made on a
case-by-case basis, in consultation with healthcare providers and state and
local health departments.

Footnote

^1Fever may be subjective or confirmed

^2Close contact is defined as—

 1. a) being within approximately 6 feet (2 meters) of a COVID-19 case for a
    prolonged period of time; close contact can occur while caring for, living
    with, visiting, or sharing a health care waiting area or room with a
    COVID-19 case

– or –

 1. b) having direct contact with infectious secretions of a COVID-19 case
    (e.g., being coughed on)

If such contact occurs while not wearing recommended personal protective
equipment or PPE (e.g., gowns, gloves, NIOSH-certified disposable N95
respirator, eye protection), criteria for PUI consideration are met”

See CDC’s updated Interim Healthcare Infection Prevention and Control
Recommendations for Persons Under Investigation for 2019 Novel Coronavirus.

Data to inform the definition of close contact are limited. Considerations when
assessing close contact include the duration of exposure (e.g., longer exposure
time likely increases exposure risk) and the clinical symptoms of the person
with COVID-19 (e.g., coughing likely increases exposure risk as does exposure
to a severely ill patient). Special consideration should be given to those
exposed in health care settings.

Top of Page
Page last reviewed: March 1, 2020
Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

  • COVID-19 Situation Summaryplus icon
      □ Cases in the U.S.
      □ Global Map
      □ CDC in Action
  • What You Should Knowplus icon
      □ How it Spreads
      □ Symptoms
      □ Prevention & Treatment
      □ What to Do if You are Sick
      □ Stigma and COVID-19plus icon
          ☆ Share Facts
      □ COVID-19 FAQs
  • Travel Informationplus icon
      □ Traveling from China
      □ Communication Resources
      □ FAQ for Travelers
  • Preventing COVID-19 Spread in Communitiesplus icon
      □ At Home
      □ At School
      □ At Work
      □ In Healthcare Settings
  • Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
      □ Pregnant Women and Childrenplus icon
          ☆ Pregnant Women
          ☆ Breastfeeding
          ☆ Children
      □ Businesses
      □ Schools
  • Healthcare Professionalsplus icon
      □ Evaluating and Reporting PUIplus icon
          ☆ Postmortem Guidance
      □ Interim Guidance for EMS
      □ Infection Controlplus icon
          ☆ Interim Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations
          ☆ FAQ on Infection Control
      □ Clinical Careplus icon
          ☆ Disposition of Hospitalized Patients with COVID-19
          ☆ Inpatient Obstetric Healthcare Guidance
      □ What Healthcare Personnel Should Know
      □ Strategies for Optimizing the Supply of N95 Respiratorsplus icon
          ☆ Conventional Capacity Strategies
          ☆ Contingency Capacity Strategies
          ☆ Crisis Alternate Strategies
      □ Healthcare Personnel with Potential Exposure to COVID-19
      □ Preparedness Resourcesplus icon
          ☆ Healthcare Providers Preparedness Checklist
          ☆ Hospital Preparedness Tool
      □ Implementing Home Careplus icon
          ☆ Preventing COVID-19 from spreading
          ☆ Disposition of Non-Hospitalized Patients with COVID-19
      □ Healthcare Supply of Personal Protective Equipmentplus icon
          ☆ FAQ About Personal Protective Equipment
      □ FAQ for Healthcare Professionals
  • Resources for Healthcare Facilities (LTCF)plus icon
      □ Steps Healthcare Facilities Can Take
      □ Interim Guidance for Healthcare Facilities
      □ Strategies to Prevent Spread in LTCF
  • Resources for Health Departmentsplus icon
      □ Evaluating PUIs Residential
      □ Reporting a PUI or Confirmed Case
      □ Risk Assessment and Management
      □ Pandemic Preparedness Resources
      □ COVID-19 Publications
  • Laboratoriesplus icon
      □ CDC Lab Workplus icon
          ☆ Testing
      □ Guidelines for Clinical Specimens
      □ Lab Biosafety Guidelines
      □ Requests for Diagnostic Tools and Virus
      □ Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Identification Protocol
      □ Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Primer and Probe Information
  • Communication Resourcesplus icon
      □ Buttons and Badges
      □ Print Resources
      □ Videos
      □ What’s New

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about COVID-19, enter your email address:

Email Address [                    ]
What's this?
Submit

HAVE QUESTIONS?
Visit CDC-INFO
Call 800-232-4636
Email CDC-INFO

CDC INFORMATION

  • About CDC
  • Jobs
  • Funding
  • Policies
  • File Viewers & Players

  • Privacy
  • FOIA
  • No Fear Act
  • OIG
  • Nondiscrimination
  • Accessibility

CONNECT WITH CDC

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Youtube
  • Instagram


  • Syndicate
  • CDC TV
  • RSS
  • Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
USA.gov
CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • LinkedIn
  • Email

Web Analytics

Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close
Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.

  • The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the
    accuracy of a non-federal website.
  • Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC
    or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products
    presented on the website.
  • You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you
    follow the link.
  • CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other
    federal or private website.

For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.
Cancel Continue
