Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty
four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People
Search
[                    ] ×
Submit
For a full list of topics: A-Z Index
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
Section Navigation COVID-19 FAQs

  • How it Spreads
  • Symptoms
  • Prevention & Treatment
  • What to Do if You are Sick
  • Stigma and COVID-19plus icon
      □ Share Facts
  • COVID-19 FAQs

Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

 1. CDC
 2. Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
 3. What You Should Know

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • LinkedIn
  • Email
  • Syndicate

Frequently Asked Questions and Answers

Other Languages
Español中文
Español | 中文
 
Related Pages
On This Page

  • Coronavirus Disease 2019 Basics
  • How It Spreads
  • How to Protect Yourself
  • Symptoms & Testing

  • Healthcare Professionals and Health Departments
  • What CDC is Doing
  • COVID-19 and Animals

Other Frequently Asked Questions and Answers About:

  • Travel
  • Pregnant Women and COVID-19
  • Healthcare Professionals
  • Healthcare Infection
  • Laboratory Diagnostic Panels
  • Laboratory Biosafety
  • Respirators

Coronavirus Disease 2019 Basics
What is a novel coronavirus?

A novel coronavirus is a new coronavirus that has not been previously
identified. The virus causing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), is not the
same as the coronaviruses that commonly circulate among humans and cause mild
illness, like the common cold.

A diagnosis with coronavirus 229E, NL63, OC43, or HKU1 is not the same as a
COVID-19 diagnosis. Patients with COVID-19 will be evaluated and cared for
differently than patients with common coronavirus diagnosis.

Why is the disease being called coronavirus disease 2019, COVID-19?

On February 11, 2020 the World Health Organization announced an official name
for the disease that is causing the 2019 novel coronavirus outbreak, first
identified in Wuhan China. The new name of this disease is coronavirus disease
2019, abbreviated as COVID-19. In COVID-19, ‘CO’ stands for ‘corona,’ ‘VI’ for
‘virus,’ and ‘D’ for disease. Formerly, this disease was referred to as “2019
novel coronavirus” or “2019-nCoV.”

There are many types of human coronaviruses including some that commonly cause
mild upper-respiratory tract illnesses. COVID-19 is a new disease, caused be a
novel (or new) coronavirus that has not previously been seen in humans. The
name of this disease was selected following the World Health Organization (WHO)
best practiceexternal icon for naming of new human infectious diseases.

What is the name of the virus causing the outbreak of coronavirus disease?

On February 11, 2020, the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses,
charged with naming new viruses, named the novel coronavirus, first identified
in Wuhan, China, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, shortened to
SARS-CoV-2.

As the name indicates, the virus is related to the SARS-associated coronavirus
(SARS-CoV) that caused an outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)
in 2002-2003, however it is not the same virus.

Is SARS-CoV-2 (the virus causing COVID-19) the same as the MERS-CoV or
SARS-CoV?

No. Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses. Some coronaviruses cause
cold-like illnesses in people. Others cause illness in certain types of
animals, such as cattle, camels and bats. Rarely, animal coronaviruses can
spread to people. This happened with SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV. The virus that
causes COVID-19 likely also originated in an animal and spread to humans. The
coronavirus most similar to the virus causing COVID-19 is SARS-CoV. There are
ongoing investigations to learn more. The situation is changing, and
information will be updated as it becomes available.

How It Spreads
What is the source of the virus?

Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses. Some cause illness in people, and
others, such as canine and feline coronaviruses, only infect animals. Rarely,
animal coronaviruses that infect animals have emerged to infect people and can
spread between people. This is suspected to have occurred for the virus that
causes COVID-19. Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) and Severe Acute
Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) are two other examples of coronaviruses that
originated from animals and then spread to people. More information about the
source and spread of COVID-19 is available on the Situation Summary: Source and
Spread of the Virus.

How does the virus spread?

This virus was first detected in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China. The first
infections were linked to a live animal market, but the virus is now spreading
from person-to-person. It’s important to note that person-to-person spread can
happen on a continuum. Some viruses are highly contagious (like measles), while
other viruses are less so.

The virus that causes COVID-19 seems to be spreading easily and sustainably in
the community (“community spread”) in some affected geographic areas. Community
spread means people have been infected with the virus in an area, including
some who are not sure how or where they became infected.

Learn what is known about the spread of newly emerged coronaviruses.

Can someone who has had COVID-19 spread the illness to others?

The virus that causes COVID-19 is spreading from person-to-person. Someone who
is actively sick with COVID-19 can spread the illness to others. That is why
CDC recommends that these patients be isolated either in the hospital or at
home (depending on how sick they are) until they are better and no longer pose
a risk of infecting others.

How long someone is actively sick can vary so the decision on when to release
someone from isolation is made on a case-by-case basis in consultation with
doctors, infection prevention and control experts, and public health officials
and involves considering specifics of each situation including disease
severity, illness signs and symptoms, and results of laboratory testing for
that patient.

Current CDC guidance for when it is OK to release someone from isolation is
made on a case by case basis and includes meeting all of the following
requirements:

  • The patient is free from fever without the use of fever-reducing
    medications.
  • The patient is no longer showing symptoms, including cough.
  • The patient has tested negative on at least two consecutive respiratory
    specimens collected at least 24 hours apart.

Someone who has been released from isolation is not considered to pose a risk
of infection to others.

Can someone who has been quarantined for COVID-19 spread the illness to others?

Quarantine means separating a person or group of people who have been exposed
to a contagious disease but have not developed illness (symptoms) from others
who have not been exposed, in order to prevent the possible spread of that
disease. Quarantine is usually established for the incubation period of the
communicable disease, which is the span of time during which people have
developed illness after exposure. For COVID-19, the period of quarantine is 14
days from the last date of exposure, because 14 days is the longest incubation
period seen for similar coronaviruses. Someone who has been released from
COVID-19 quarantine is not considered a risk for spreading the virus to others
because they have not developed illness during the incubation period.

Will warm weather stop the outbreak of COVID-19?

It is not yet known whether weather and temperature impact the spread of
COVID-19. Some other viruses, like the common cold and flu, spread more during
cold weather months but that does not mean it is impossible to become sick with
these viruses during other months.  At this time, it is not known whether the
spread of COVID-19 will decrease when weather becomes warmer.  There is much
more to learn about the transmissibility, severity, and other features
associated with COVID-19 and investigations are ongoing.

What is community spread?

Community spread means people have been infected with the virus in an area,
including some who are not sure how or where they became infected.

How to Protect Yourself
Am I at risk for COVID-19 in the United States?

This is a rapidly evolving situation and the risk assessment may change daily.
The latest updates are available on CDC’s Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
website.

Has anyone in the United States gotten infected?

Yes. There have been cases of COVID-19 in the U.S. related to travel and
person-to-person spread. U.S. case counts are updated regularly on Mondays,
Wednesday, and Fridays. See the current U.S. case count of COVID-19.

How can I help protect myself?

Visit the COVID-19 Prevention and Treatment page to learn about how to protect
yourself from respiratory illnesses, like COVID-19.

What should I do if I had close contact with someone who has COVID-19?

There is information for people who have had close contact with a person
confirmed to have, or being evaluated for, COVID-19 available online.

Does CDC recommend the use of facemask to prevent COVID-19?

CDC does not recommend that people who are well wear a facemask to protect
themselves from respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19. You should only wear
a mask if a healthcare professional recommends it. A facemask should be used by
people who have COVID-19 and are showing symptoms. This is to protect others
from the risk of getting infected. The use of facemasks also is crucial for
health workers and other people who are taking care of someone infected with
COVID-19 in close settings (at home or in a health care facility).

Am I at risk for COVID-19 from a package or products shipping from China?

There is still a lot that is unknown about the newly emerged COVID-19 and how
it spreads. Two other coronaviruses have emerged previously to cause severe
illness in people (MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV). The virus that causes COVID-19 is
more genetically related to SARS-CoV than MERS-CoV, but both are
betacoronaviruses with their origins in bats. While we don’t know for sure that
this virus will behave the same way as SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, we can use the
information gained from both of these earlier coronaviruses to guide us. In
general, because of poor survivability of these coronaviruses on surfaces,
there is likely very low risk of spread from products or packaging that are
shipped over a period of days or weeks at ambient temperatures. Coronaviruses
are generally thought to be spread most often by respiratory droplets.
Currently there is no evidence to support transmission of COVID-19 associated
with imported goods and there have not been any cases of COVID-19 in the United
States associated with imported goods. Information will be provided on the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) website as it becomes available.

Symptoms & Testing
What are the symptoms and complications that COVID-19 can cause?

Current symptoms reported for patients with COVID-19 have included mild to
severe respiratory illness with fever^1, cough, and difficulty breathing. Read
about COVID-19 Symptoms.

Should I be tested for COVID-19?

Call your healthcare professional if you feel sick with fever, cough, or
difficulty breathing, and have been in close contact with a person known to
have COVID-19, or if you have recently traveled from an area with widespread or
ongoing community spread of COVID-19.

Your healthcare professional will work with your state’s public health
department and CDC to determine if you need to be tested for COVID-19.

How do you test a person for COVID-19?

State and local health departments who have identified a person under
investigation (PUI) should immediately notify CDC’s Emergency Operations Center
(EOC) to report the PUI and determine whether testing for COVID-19 at CDC is
indicated. The EOC will assist local/state health departments to collect,
store, and ship specimens appropriately to CDC, including during afterhours or
on weekends/holidays.

For more information on specimen collection see CDC Information for
Laboratories.

Can a person test negative and later test positive for COVID-19?

Using the CDC-developed diagnostic test, a negative result means that the virus
that causes COVID-19 was not found in the person’s sample. In the early stages
of infection, it is possible the virus will not be detected.

For COVID-19, a negative test result for a sample collected while a person has
symptoms likely means that the COVID-19 virus is not causing their current
illness.

Healthcare Professionals and Health Departments
What should healthcare professionals and health departments do?

For recommendations and guidance on persons under investigation; infection
control, including personal protective equipment guidance; home care and
isolation; and case investigation, see Information for Healthcare Professionals
. For information on specimen collection and shipment, see Information for
Laboratories. For information for public health professional on COVID-19, see
Information for Public Health Professionals.

FAQs for Healthcare Professionals
What CDC is Doing
What is CDC doing about COVID-19?

This is an emerging, rapidly evolving situation and CDC will continue to
provide updated information as it becomes available. CDC works 24/7 to protect
people’s health. More information about CDC’s response to COVID-19 is available
online.

COVID-19 and Animals
What about animals or animal products imported from China?

CDC does not have any evidence to suggest that animals or animal products
imported from China pose a risk for spreading COVID-19 in the United States.
This is a rapidly evolving situation and information will be updated as it
becomes available. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC),
the U. S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service (FWS) play distinct but complementary roles in regulating the
importation of live animals and animal products into the United States. CDC
regulates animals and animal products that pose a threat to human health, USDA
regulatesexternal icon animals and animal products that pose a threat to
agriculture; and FWS regulatesexternal icon importation of endangered species
and wildlife that can harm the health and welfare of humans, the interests of
agriculture, horticulture, or forestry, and the welfare and survival of
wildlife resources.

Can I travel to the United States with dogs or import dogs into the United
States during the COVID-19 outbreak?

Please refer to CDC’s requirements for bringing a dog to the United States. The
current requirements for rabies vaccination apply to dogs imported from China,
a high-risk country for rabies.

Should I be concerned about pets or other animals and COVID-19?

While this virus seems to have emerged from an animal source, it is now
spreading from person-to-person in China. There is no reason to think that any
animals including pets in the United States might be a source of infection with
this new coronavirus. To date, CDC has not received any reports of pets or
other animals becoming sick with COVID-19. At this time, there is no evidence
that companion animals including pets can spread COVID-19. However, since
animals can spread other diseases to people, it’s always a good idea to wash
your hands after being around animals. For more information on the many
benefits of pet ownership, as well as staying safe and healthy around animals
including pets, livestock, and wildlife, visit CDC’s Healthy Pets, Healthy
People website.

Should I avoid contact with pets or other animals if I am sick with COVID-19?

You should restrict contact with pets and other animals while you are sick with
COVID-19, just like you would around other people. Although there have not been
reports of pets or other animals becoming sick with COVID-19, it is still
recommended that people sick with COVID-19 limit contact with animals until
more information is known about the virus. When possible, have another member
of your household care for your animals while you are sick. If you are sick
with COVID-19, avoid contact with your pet, including petting, snuggling, being
kissed or licked, and sharing food. If you must care for your pet or be around
animals while you are sick, wash your hands before and after you interact with
pets and wear a facemask.

What precautions should be taken for animals that have recently been imported
(for example, by shelters, rescue groups, or as personal pets) from China?

Animals imported from China will need to meet CDC and USDAexternal icon
requirements for entering the United States. At this time, there is no evidence
that companion animals including pets can spread COVID-19. As with any animal
introduced to a new environment, animals recently imported from China should be
observed daily for signs of illness. If an animal becomes ill, the animal
should be examined by a veterinarian. Call your local veterinary clinic before
bringing the animal into the clinic and let them know that the animal was
recently in China.

Footnotes

^1Fever may be subjective or confirmed

^2Close contact is defined as—

a) being within approximately 6 feet (2 meters) of a COVID-19 case for a
prolonged period of time; close contact can occur while caring for, living
with, visiting, or sharing a health care waiting area or room with a COVID-19
case

– or –

b) having direct contact with infectious secretions of a COVID-19 case (e.g.,
being coughed on)

If such contact occurs while not wearing recommended personal protective
equipment or PPE (e.g., gowns, gloves, NIOSH-certified disposable N95
respirator, eye protection), criteria for PUI consideration are met”

See CDC’s updated Interim Healthcare Infection Prevention and Control
Recommendations for Persons Under Investigation for 2019 Novel Coronavirus.

Data to inform the definition of close contact are limited. Considerations when
assessing close contact include the duration of exposure (e.g., longer exposure
time likely increases exposure risk) and the clinical symptoms of the person
with COVID-19 (e.g., coughing likely increases exposure risk as does exposure
to a severely ill patient). Special consideration should be given to those
exposed in health care settings.

Page last reviewed: March 1, 2020
Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

  • COVID-19 Situation Summaryplus icon
      □ Cases in the U.S.
      □ Global Map
      □ CDC in Action
  • What You Should Knowplus icon
      □ How it Spreads
      □ Symptoms
      □ Prevention & Treatment
      □ What to Do if You are Sick
      □ Stigma and COVID-19plus icon
          ☆ Share Facts
      □ COVID-19 FAQs
  • Travel Informationplus icon
      □ Traveling from China
      □ Communication Resources
      □ FAQ for Travelers
  • Preventing COVID-19 Spread in Communitiesplus icon
      □ At Home
      □ At School
      □ At Work
      □ In Healthcare Settings
  • Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
      □ Pregnant Women and Childrenplus icon
          ☆ Pregnant Women
          ☆ Breastfeeding
          ☆ Children
      □ Businesses
      □ Schools
  • Healthcare Professionalsplus icon
      □ Evaluating and Reporting PUIplus icon
          ☆ Postmortem Guidance
      □ Interim Guidance for EMS
      □ Infection Controlplus icon
          ☆ Interim Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations
          ☆ FAQ on Infection Control
      □ Clinical Careplus icon
          ☆ Disposition of Hospitalized Patients with COVID-19
          ☆ Inpatient Obstetric Healthcare Guidance
      □ What Healthcare Personnel Should Know
      □ Strategies for Optimizing the Supply of N95 Respiratorsplus icon
          ☆ Conventional Capacity Strategies
          ☆ Contingency Capacity Strategies
          ☆ Crisis Alternate Strategies
      □ Healthcare Personnel with Potential Exposure to COVID-19
      □ Preparedness Resourcesplus icon
          ☆ Healthcare Providers Preparedness Checklist
          ☆ Hospital Preparedness Tool
      □ Implementing Home Careplus icon
          ☆ Preventing COVID-19 from spreading
          ☆ Disposition of Non-Hospitalized Patients with COVID-19
      □ Healthcare Supply of Personal Protective Equipmentplus icon
          ☆ FAQ About Personal Protective Equipment
      □ FAQ for Healthcare Professionals
  • Resources for Healthcare Facilities (LTCF)plus icon
      □ Steps Healthcare Facilities Can Take
      □ Interim Guidance for Healthcare Facilities
      □ Strategies to Prevent Spread in LTCF
  • Resources for Health Departmentsplus icon
      □ Evaluating PUIs Residential
      □ Reporting a PUI or Confirmed Case
      □ Risk Assessment and Management
      □ Pandemic Preparedness Resources
      □ COVID-19 Publications
  • Laboratoriesplus icon
      □ CDC Lab Workplus icon
          ☆ Testing
      □ Guidelines for Clinical Specimens
      □ Lab Biosafety Guidelines
      □ Requests for Diagnostic Tools and Virus
      □ Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Identification Protocol
      □ Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Primer and Probe Information
  • Communication Resourcesplus icon
      □ Buttons and Badges
      □ Print Resources
      □ Videos
      □ What’s New

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about COVID-19, enter your email address:

Email Address [                    ]
What's this?
Submit

HAVE QUESTIONS?
Visit CDC-INFO
Call 800-232-4636
Email CDC-INFO

CDC INFORMATION

  • About CDC
  • Jobs
  • Funding
  • Policies
  • File Viewers & Players

  • Privacy
  • FOIA
  • No Fear Act
  • OIG
  • Nondiscrimination
  • Accessibility

CONNECT WITH CDC

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Youtube
  • Instagram


  • Syndicate
  • CDC TV
  • RSS
  • Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
USA.gov
CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • LinkedIn
  • Email

Web Analytics

Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close
Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.

  • The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the
    accuracy of a non-federal website.
  • Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC
    or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products
    presented on the website.
  • You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you
    follow the link.
  • CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other
    federal or private website.

For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.
Cancel Continue
