Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty
four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People
Search
[                    ] ×
Submit
For a full list of topics: A-Z Index
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
Section Navigation At Home

  • At Home
  • At School
  • At Work
  • In Healthcare Settings

Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

 1. CDC
 2. Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
 3. Preventing COVID-19 Spread in Communities

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • LinkedIn
  • Email
  • Syndicate

Interim Guidance: Get Your Household Ready for Coronavirus Disease 2019
(COVID-19)

 
Related Pages

This interim guidance is based on what is currently known about the Coronavirus
Disease 2019 (COVID-19). The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
will update this interim guidance as needed and as additional information
becomes available.

This interim guidance is to help household members plan for community
transmission of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in the United States. The
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) encourages household members
to prepare for the possibility of a COVID-19 outbreak in their community.

COVID-19 is caused by a new virus. There is much to learn about its
transmissibility, severity, and other features of the disease. We want to help
everyone prepare to respond to this public health threat.

In this guidance

  • Before a COVID-19 outbreak occurs: Plan
  • During a COVID-19 outbreak: Act
  • After a COVID-19 outbreak has ended: Follow Up
  • Readiness Resources

Before a COVID-19 outbreak occurs in your community: Plan

A COVID-19 outbreak could last for a long time in your community. Depending on
the severity of the outbreak, public health officials may recommend community
actions designed to help keep people healthy, reduce exposures to COVID-19, and
slow the spread of the disease. Local public health officials may make
recommendations appropriate to your local situation. Creating a household plan
can help protect your health and the health of those you care about in the
event of an outbreak of COVID-19 in your community. You should base the details
of your household plan on the needs and daily routine of your household
members.

Create a household plan of action

check icon

Talk with the people who need to be included in your plan. Meet with household
members, other relatives, and friends to discuss what to do if a COVID-19
outbreak occurs in your community and what the needs of each person will be.

check icon

Plan ways to care for those who might be at greater risk for serious
complications. There is limited information about who may be at risk for severe
complications from COVID-19 illness. From the data that are available for
COVID-19 patients, and from data for related coronaviruses such as SARS-CoV and
MERS-CoV, it is possible that older adults and persons who have underlying
chronic medical conditions may be at risk for more serious complications. Early
data suggest older people are more likely to have serious COVID-19 illness. If
you or your household members are at increased risk for COVID-19 complications,
please consult with your health care provider for more information about
monitoring your health for symptoms suggestive of COVID-19. CDC will recommend
actions to help keep people at high risk for complications healthy if a
COVID-19 outbreak occurs in your community.

check icon

Get to know your neighbors. Talk with your neighbors about emergency planning.
If your neighborhood has a website or social media page, consider joining it to
maintain access to neighbors, information, and resources.

check icon

Identify aid organizations in your community. Create a list of local
organizations that you and your household can contact in the event you need
access to information, health care services, support, and resources. Consider
including organizations that provide mental health or counseling services,
food, and other supplies.

check icon

Create an emergency contact list. Ensure your household has a current list of
emergency contacts for family, friends, neighbors, carpool drivers, health care
providers, teachers, employers, the local public health department, and other
community resources.

Practice good personal health habits and plan for home-based actions

check icon

Practice everyday preventive actions now. Remind everyone in your household of
the importance of practicing everyday preventive actions that can help prevent
the spread of respiratory illnesses:

  • Avoid close contact with people who are sick.
  • Stay home when you are sick, except to get medical care.
  • Cover your coughs and sneezes with a tissue.
  • Clean frequently touched surfaces and objects daily (e.g., tables,
    countertops, light switches, doorknobs, and cabinet handles) using a
    regular household detergent and water.
      □ If surfaces are dirty, they should be cleaned using a detergent and
        water prior to disinfection. For disinfection, a list of products with
        Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)-approved emerging viral pathogens
        claims, maintained by the American Chemistry Council Center for Biocide
        Chemistries (CBC), is available at Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19)
        Fighting Productspdf iconexternal icon. Always follow the
        manufacturer’s instructions for all cleaning and disinfection products.
  • Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds,
    especially after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after blowing
    your nose, coughing, or sneezing. If soap and water are not readily
    available, use a hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol. Always
    wash your hands with soap and water if your hands are visibly dirty.

check icon

Choose a room in your home that can be used to separate sick household members
from those who are healthy. Identify a separate bathroom for the sick person to
use, if possible. Plan to clean these rooms, as needed, when someone is sick.
Learn how to care for someone with COVID-19 at home.

Be prepared if your child’s school or childcare facility is temporarily
dismissed

check icon

Learn about the emergency operations plan at your child’s school or childcare
facility. During a COVID-19 outbreak in your community, local public health
officials may recommend temporary school dismissals to help slow the spread of
illness. School authorities also may decide to dismiss a school if too many
students or staff are absent. Understand the plan for continuing education and
social services (such as student meal programs) during school dismissals. If
your child attends a college or university, encourage them to learn about the
school’s plan for a COVID-19 outbreak.

Plan for potential changes at your workplace

check icon

Learn about your employer’s emergency operations plan. Discuss sick-leave
policies and telework options for workers who are sick or who need to stay home
to care for sick household members. Learn how businesses and employers can plan
for and respond to COVID-19.

Top of Page

During a COVID-19 outbreak in your community: Act

During an outbreak in your community, protect yourself and others by:

check icon

  • Staying home from work, school, and all activities when you are sick with
    COVID-19 symptoms, which may include fever, cough, and difficulty
    breathing.
  • Keeping away from others who are sick.
  • Limiting close contact with others as much as possible (about 6 feet).

Put your household plan into action

check icon

Stay informed about the local COVID-19 situation. Get up-to-date information
about local COVID-19 activity from public health officialsexternal icon. Be
aware of temporary school dismissals in your area, as this may affect your
household’s daily routine.

check icon

Stay home if you are sick. Stay home if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If a member
of your household is sick, stay home from school and work to avoid spreading
COVID-19 to others.

  • If your children are in the care of others, urge caregivers to watch for
    COVID-19 symptoms.

check icon

Continue practicing everyday preventive actions. Cover coughs and sneezes with
a tissue and wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.
If soap and water are not available, use a hand sanitizer that contains 60%
alcohol. Clean frequently touched surfaces and objects daily using a regular
household detergent and water.

check icon

Use the separate room and bathroom you prepared for sick household members (if
possible). Learn how to care for someone with COVID-19 at home. Avoid sharing
personal items like food and drinks. Provide your sick household member with
clean disposable facemasks to wear at home, if available, to help prevent
spreading COVID-19 to others. Clean the sick room and bathroom, as needed, to
avoid unnecessary contact with the sick person.

  • If surfaces are dirty, they should be cleaned using a detergent and water
    prior to disinfection. For disinfection, a list of products with
    EPA-approved emerging viral pathogens claims, maintained by the CBC, is
    available at Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) Fighting Productspdf iconexternal
    icon. Always follow the manufacturer’s instructions for all cleaning and
    disinfection products.

check icon

Stay in touch with others by phone or email. If you live alone and become sick
during a COVID-19 outbreak, you may need help. If you have a chronic medical
condition and live alone, ask family, friends, and health care providers to
check on you during an outbreak. Stay in touch with family and friends with
chronic medical conditions.

check icon

Take care of the emotional health of your household members. Outbreaks can be
stressful for adults and children. Children respond differently to stressful
situations than adults. Talk with your children about the outbreak, try to stay
calm, and reassure them that they are safe.

Inform your workplace if you need to change your regular work schedule

check icon

Notify your workplace as soon as possible if your schedule changes. Ask to work
from home or take leave if you or someone in your household gets sick with
COVID-19 symptoms, or if your child’s school is dismissed temporarily.

Take the following steps to help protect your children during an outbreak

check icon

If your child/children become sick with COVID-19s, notify their childcare
facility or school. Talk with teachers about classroom assignments and
activities they can do from home to keep up with their schoolwork.

check icon

Keep track of school dismissals in your community. Read or watch local media
sources that report school dismissals. If schools are dismissed temporarily,
use alternative childcare arrangements, if needed.

check icon

Discourage children and teens from gathering in other public places while
school is dismissed to help slow the spread of COVID-19 in the community.

Top of Page

After a COVID-19 outbreak has ended in your community: Follow Up

Remember, a COVID-19 outbreak could last a long time. The impact on
individuals, households, and communities might be great. When public health
officials determine the outbreak has ended in your community, take time to
improve your household’s plan. As public health officials continue to plan for
COVID-19 and other disease outbreaks, you and your household also have an
important role to play in ongoing planning efforts.

Evaluate the effectiveness of your household’s plan of action

check icon

Discuss and note lessons learned. Were your COVID-19 preparedness actions
effective at home, school, and work? Talk about problems found in your plan and
effective solutions. Identify additional resources needed for you and your
household.

check icon

Participate in community discussions about emergency planning. Let others know
about what readiness actions worked for you and your household. Maintain
communication lines with your community (e.g., social media and email lists).
Promote the importance of practicing good personal health habits.

check icon

Continue to practice everyday preventive actions. Stay home when you are sick;
cover your coughs and sneezes with a tissue; wash your hands often with soap
and water; and clean frequently touched surfaces and objects daily.

check icon

Take care of the emotional health of your household members. Make time to
unwind and remind yourself that strong feelings will fade. Take breaks from
watching, reading, or listening to news stories about COVID-19. Connect with
family and friends. Share your concerns and how you are feeling with others.

check icon

Help your child/children cope after the outbreak. Provide children with
opportunities to talk about what they went through or what they think about it.
Encourage them to share concerns and ask questions. Because parents, teachers,
and other adults see children in different situations, it is important for them
to work together to share information about how each child is coping after the
outbreak.

COVID-19 Readiness Resources

  • Visit cdc.gov/COVID19 for the latest information and resources
  • COVID 2019 Situation Summary
  • Prevention and Treatment
  • What to Do If You Are Sick
  • Pregnant Women and COVID FAQs
  • Stigma Related to COVID-19
  • Handwashing: A Family Activity
  • Handwashing: Clean Hands Save Lives

CDC Interim Guidance for Specific Audiences

  • Interim Guidance for Administrators of US Childcare Programs and K-12
    Schools to Plan, Prepare, and Respond to Coronavirus Disease 2019
    (COVID-19)
  • Interim Guidance for Businesses and Employers to Plan and Respond to
    Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

CDC Communication Resources

  • Communication Resources
  • Print Resources
  • Buttons and Badges

Top of Page
Page last reviewed: March 1, 2020
Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

  • COVID-19 Situation Summaryplus icon
      □ Cases in the U.S.
      □ Global Map
      □ CDC in Action
  • What You Should Knowplus icon
      □ How it Spreads
      □ Symptoms
      □ Prevention & Treatment
      □ What to Do if You are Sick
      □ Stigma and COVID-19plus icon
          ☆ Share Facts
      □ COVID-19 FAQs
  • Travel Informationplus icon
      □ Traveling from China
      □ Communication Resources
      □ FAQ for Travelers
  • Preventing COVID-19 Spread in Communitiesplus icon
      □ At Home
      □ At School
      □ At Work
      □ In Healthcare Settings
  • Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
      □ Pregnant Women and Childrenplus icon
          ☆ Pregnant Women
          ☆ Breastfeeding
          ☆ Children
      □ Businesses
      □ Schools
  • Healthcare Professionalsplus icon
      □ Evaluating and Reporting PUIplus icon
          ☆ Postmortem Guidance
      □ Interim Guidance for EMS
      □ Infection Controlplus icon
          ☆ Interim Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations
          ☆ FAQ on Infection Control
      □ Clinical Careplus icon
          ☆ Disposition of Hospitalized Patients with COVID-19
          ☆ Inpatient Obstetric Healthcare Guidance
      □ What Healthcare Personnel Should Know
      □ Strategies for Optimizing the Supply of N95 Respiratorsplus icon
          ☆ Conventional Capacity Strategies
          ☆ Contingency Capacity Strategies
          ☆ Crisis Alternate Strategies
      □ Healthcare Personnel with Potential Exposure to COVID-19
      □ Preparedness Resourcesplus icon
          ☆ Healthcare Providers Preparedness Checklist
          ☆ Hospital Preparedness Tool
      □ Implementing Home Careplus icon
          ☆ Preventing COVID-19 from spreading
          ☆ Disposition of Non-Hospitalized Patients with COVID-19
      □ Healthcare Supply of Personal Protective Equipmentplus icon
          ☆ FAQ About Personal Protective Equipment
      □ FAQ for Healthcare Professionals
  • Resources for Healthcare Facilities (LTCF)plus icon
      □ Steps Healthcare Facilities Can Take
      □ Interim Guidance for Healthcare Facilities
      □ Strategies to Prevent Spread in LTCF
  • Resources for Health Departmentsplus icon
      □ Evaluating PUIs Residential
      □ Reporting a PUI or Confirmed Case
      □ Risk Assessment and Management
      □ Pandemic Preparedness Resources
      □ COVID-19 Publications
  • Laboratoriesplus icon
      □ CDC Lab Workplus icon
          ☆ Testing
      □ Guidelines for Clinical Specimens
      □ Lab Biosafety Guidelines
      □ Requests for Diagnostic Tools and Virus
      □ Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Identification Protocol
      □ Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Primer and Probe Information
  • Communication Resourcesplus icon
      □ Buttons and Badges
      □ Print Resources
      □ Videos
      □ What’s New

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about COVID-19, enter your email address:

Email Address [                    ]
What's this?
Submit

HAVE QUESTIONS?
Visit CDC-INFO
Call 800-232-4636
Email CDC-INFO

CDC INFORMATION

  • About CDC
  • Jobs
  • Funding
  • Policies
  • File Viewers & Players

  • Privacy
  • FOIA
  • No Fear Act
  • OIG
  • Nondiscrimination
  • Accessibility

CONNECT WITH CDC

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Youtube
  • Instagram


  • Syndicate
  • CDC TV
  • RSS
  • Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
USA.gov
CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • LinkedIn
  • Email

Web Analytics

Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close
Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.

  • The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the
    accuracy of a non-federal website.
  • Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC
    or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products
    presented on the website.
  • You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you
    follow the link.
  • CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other
    federal or private website.

For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.
Cancel Continue
