Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty
four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People
Search
[                    ] ×
Submit
For a full list of topics: A-Z Index
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
Section Navigation Prevention & Treatment

  • How it Spreads
  • Symptoms
  • Prevention & Treatment
  • What to Do if You are Sick
  • Stigma and COVID-19plus icon
      □ Share Facts
  • COVID-19 FAQs

Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

 1. CDC
 2. Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
 3. What You Should Know

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • LinkedIn
  • Email
  • Syndicate

Prevention & Treatment

Other Languages
中文Español
中文 | Español
 
Related Pages
Prevention

There is currently no vaccine to prevent coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).
The best way to prevent illness is to avoid being exposed to this virus.
However, as a reminder, CDC always recommends everyday preventive actions to
help prevent the spread of respiratory diseases, including:

  • Avoid close contact with people who are sick.
  • Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.
  • Stay home when you are sick.
  • Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the
    trash.
  • Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular
    household cleaning spray or wipe.
  • Follow CDC’s recommendations for using a facemask.
      □ CDC does not recommend that people who are well wear a facemask to
        protect themselves from respiratory diseases, including COVID-19.
      □ Facemasks should be used by people who show symptoms of COVID-19 to
        help prevent the spread of the disease to  others. The use of facemasks
        is also crucial for health workers and people who are taking care of
        someone in close settings (at home or in a health care facility).
  • Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds,
    especially after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after blowing
    your nose, coughing, or sneezing.
      □ If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand
        sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol. Always wash hands with soap and
        water if hands are visibly dirty.

For information about handwashing, see CDC’s Handwashing website

For information specific to healthcare, see CDC’s Hand Hygiene in Healthcare
Settings

These are everyday habits that can help prevent the spread of several viruses.
CDC does have specific guidance for travelers.

Treatment

There is no specific antiviral treatment recommended for COVID-19. People with
COVID-19 should receive supportive care to help relieve symptoms. For severe
cases, treatment should include care to support vital organ functions.

People who think they may have been exposed to COVID-19 should contact their
healthcare provider immediately.

See Interim Guidance for Healthcare Professionals for information on persons
under investigation.

Info for Healthcare Professionals
Page last reviewed: February 15, 2020
Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)

  • COVID-19 Situation Summaryplus icon
      □ Cases in the U.S.
      □ Global Map
      □ CDC in Action
  • What You Should Knowplus icon
      □ How it Spreads
      □ Symptoms
      □ Prevention & Treatment
      □ What to Do if You are Sick
      □ Stigma and COVID-19plus icon
          ☆ Share Facts
      □ COVID-19 FAQs
  • Travel Informationplus icon
      □ Traveling from China
      □ Communication Resources
      □ FAQ for Travelers
  • Preventing COVID-19 Spread in Communitiesplus icon
      □ At Home
      □ At School
      □ At Work
      □ In Healthcare Settings
  • Information for Specific Groupsplus icon
      □ Pregnant Women and Childrenplus icon
          ☆ Pregnant Women
          ☆ Breastfeeding
          ☆ Children
      □ Businesses
      □ Schools
  • Healthcare Professionalsplus icon
      □ Evaluating and Reporting PUIplus icon
          ☆ Postmortem Guidance
      □ Interim Guidance for EMS
      □ Infection Controlplus icon
          ☆ Interim Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations
          ☆ FAQ on Infection Control
      □ Clinical Careplus icon
          ☆ Disposition of Hospitalized Patients with COVID-19
          ☆ Inpatient Obstetric Healthcare Guidance
      □ What Healthcare Personnel Should Know
      □ Strategies for Optimizing the Supply of N95 Respiratorsplus icon
          ☆ Conventional Capacity Strategies
          ☆ Contingency Capacity Strategies
          ☆ Crisis Alternate Strategies
      □ Healthcare Personnel with Potential Exposure to COVID-19
      □ Preparedness Resourcesplus icon
          ☆ Healthcare Providers Preparedness Checklist
          ☆ Hospital Preparedness Tool
      □ Implementing Home Careplus icon
          ☆ Preventing COVID-19 from spreading
          ☆ Disposition of Non-Hospitalized Patients with COVID-19
      □ Healthcare Supply of Personal Protective Equipmentplus icon
          ☆ FAQ About Personal Protective Equipment
      □ FAQ for Healthcare Professionals
  • Resources for Healthcare Facilities (LTCF)plus icon
      □ Steps Healthcare Facilities Can Take
      □ Interim Guidance for Healthcare Facilities
      □ Strategies to Prevent Spread in LTCF
  • Resources for Health Departmentsplus icon
      □ Evaluating PUIs Residential
      □ Reporting a PUI or Confirmed Case
      □ Risk Assessment and Management
      □ Pandemic Preparedness Resources
      □ COVID-19 Publications
  • Laboratoriesplus icon
      □ CDC Lab Workplus icon
          ☆ Testing
      □ Guidelines for Clinical Specimens
      □ Lab Biosafety Guidelines
      □ Requests for Diagnostic Tools and Virus
      □ Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Identification Protocol
      □ Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Primer and Probe Information
  • Communication Resourcesplus icon
      □ Buttons and Badges
      □ Print Resources
      □ Videos
      □ What’s New

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about COVID-19, enter your email address:

Email Address [                    ]
What's this?
Submit

HAVE QUESTIONS?
Visit CDC-INFO
Call 800-232-4636
Email CDC-INFO

CDC INFORMATION

  • About CDC
  • Jobs
  • Funding
  • Policies
  • File Viewers & Players

  • Privacy
  • FOIA
  • No Fear Act
  • OIG
  • Nondiscrimination
  • Accessibility

CONNECT WITH CDC

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • Youtube
  • Instagram


  • Syndicate
  • CDC TV
  • RSS
  • Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
USA.gov
CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

  • Facebook
  • Twitter
  • LinkedIn
  • Email

Web Analytics

Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close
Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.

  • The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the
    accuracy of a non-federal website.
  • Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC
    or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products
    presented on the website.
  • You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you
    follow the link.
  • CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other
    federal or private website.

For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.
Cancel Continue
